
#### What is an example of _learning_ in humans?
- Distance Learning,
Learning from a teacher( School System)
- -) Improving classification capabiltity. Humans can classify many objects after just seeing a small number of examples of this object category. Moreover, adults will probably achieve higher scores on imagenet than children, due to past experience.
-) Muscle memory through repetition (e.g. playing instruments, typing, etc.)
- Humans experience different types of learning, from simple ones, like not touching a hot cooking plate, to more complex ones, like mathematics. When learning mathematics kids often just memorize the theorems, without really understanding it. One might argue, that this is not more complex than memorizing not to touch a hot plate, but the complexity I am talking about comes with learning to understand the connections between the theorems. Here, the focus is not on how things work, it is on why they work how they do. This is the extraordinary aspect of human learning, they are so good in problem solving, because they are understanding the connections between their actions and the results.
- When learning a language it is usually through talking to others. Learning a language means to actively use it repeatedly and be corrected by others who have a better understanding of the language.
- Doing a repetitive task while constantly improving in it
- Learning is all about generalization. Taking examples, humans derive common properties and intrinsic rules from them. Examples of learning include learning to speak (as a baby), as well as learning for an exam (as a student).
- Learning a new behavior, method, technique, e.g. by trying to use a certain tool to achieve a goal. Practice should typicaly help to improve ones skill, a teacher (or supervisor of some sort) that knows the technique well can help speed up the learning process.
More concretely: a kid learns to tie his/her shoes when their parent repeatedly shows them how to do it and checks the result.
- The ability to improve knowledge of a new language. The whole process is considered a learning process because people will improve the various faculties related to the topic.
- Verbal association is the learning of chains that are verbal. Basically, the conditions resemble those for other chains.
- Learning to ride a bicycle is a process during which one becomes better and better at maintaining ones balance, choosing the speed, etc. by trial and error (and maybe thanks to some advice).

#### What is an example of _learning_ in animals?
- ducks waiting for you to throw them food
- There are many fascinating psycholgy experiments
-) pavlovs dog
-) learned helplessness
- Since there is a wide variety of animals, they experience different types of learning as well. The most animals, for example rats, just notice which button gives them food and which does not. They do not question, why this happens. However, there are some animals more intelligent. Monkeys and crows have developed the ability to use tools to get food. It might be, that they just randomly noticed that these tools help them to get food more efficiently, but it is supposed, that they understand, what the tool does and which properties make it a good tool.
- Animals usually learn by observing their parents or other adults of their group.
- same answer as before
- Animals learn as well. Examples are crows which learn how to crack a nut by throwing it before a driving car.
- Animals may learn from observation (or training with a supervisor) the relationship between actions.
E.g.: dog that doesnt pull its leash a lot gets more encouragement.
Or: Ravens learn that at some dumpster there is usually a lot of food.
- For example in birds, the ability to learn to fly. It is a continuous process of learning to use the wings.
- Habituation which means : make it do the same thing
- Many animals have adapted to living in an urban environment, for which they are certainly not genetically predisposed. For instance, stray dogs have been observed to cross busy streets and even take public transportation in some cities. Their learning process was likely a combination of trial and error and of emulating humans (or other dogs).

#### What would you say is the common denominator between those?
- Experience
- Repetition
- Humans as well as animals learn by memorizing which action causes which outcome. They try different approaches and value their efficiency concerning reaching their goal. Humans and more intelligent animals also share the aspect of noticing, why an action causes an outcome. This enables them to adjust their approaches dynamically and not just on a random basis. However, the core aspect of learning is just the dependency between action and outcome.
- Both learn through the experience/knowledge of others; they are led through the learning process by elders.
- Well i kinda said it s the same so the common denominator is that they are the same....
- Learning between humans and animals is extremely similar. In the young phases they are essentially the same, and both learn how to eat and walk and run. In later phases the higher abstraction capability of humans allows them to learn more high-level stuff.
- Reinforcing behaviour in some way, either through intrinisc ("I am happy that I acuired a new skill", "I am happy that I found this dumpster food source") and/or extrinsic encouragement ("Poeple like the things I produce with the new skill I have now", "My Raven friends have higher ragard now that I told them about this new dumpster I found that has lots of food").
- The ability to improve knowledge/practice on a theme/action.
- brain analysis
- A feature that is shared by these natural learning processes is that they involve actions on the part of the learner, to which the environment will respond. Based on this feedback the actions taken are continuously adapted (in an essentially Bayesian manner) to yield more satisfying results.
One could call this an evolving model of the external world however, this could imply consciousness, which is (perhaps) not necessary (and the question of which would lead too far).

#### How long ago was the last time a machine learning algorithm helped you and in what way?
- Spamfilter, recently
- probably on the weekend, a recommender system suggesting a suitable movie
- I would say it is hard to tell when my last unconscious use of a machine learning algorithm was. Probably on Instagram one hour ago when calculating which posts should be shown on top of the feed. However, the last time I consciously used a machine learning algorithm was a few days ago, when I used Google Deep Dream. This is a program, where I can give an Image as Input and it transforms the image to look psychedelic in a way. DeepDream uses a convolutional neuronal network to notice aspects of, for example, faces and then strengthens this aspects, so that faces appear in areas of the image, where they look "natural". I do photography as a hobby and I love transforming my photos with DeepDream, the results are stunning.
- A few years ago with learning a new language.
- object detection
- Just now. When my mail server caught some spam using Bayes filter. When Google used machine learning to find good results for my queries. When my camera was using machine learning to improve quality and reduce noise.
- Some minutes ago when I googled something. It helped me navigate the hellholes of the internet and turn up something very useuful, fast.
- It was the last project I worked on last semester. It was about the development of a solution for the extraction and automatic analysis of data and relevant information for the calculation of land and properties. It was a regression problem with data obtained from real estate websites using webscraping techniques. Then, we did the pre-processing and data analysis, for better results in the regression algorithms (linear regression, random forest, ridge regression, gradient boosting regression, decision tree regression, lightGBM regressor and artificial neural networks).
- 2 months ago
- A few minutes ago I was scrolling through my Facebook feed, which did indeed contain some items of interest (and some others). The underlying recommender system thus saved me some time, cognitive load, and finger usage.

#### Please list a few applications of machine learning that you can think of.
- Spamfilter
Image upscaling and enhancement
auto completion
chess
- -) Recommender Systems
-) various classifications (images, sickness,
-) self driving cars (ALVINN)
-) content generation
-) outlier detection
-) compression
-) clustering
- Image recognition
Game-Playing program (e.g. chess)
Music recognition
Feed Calculation (e.g. Instagram)
Chatbots
- Personal assistant, search engine results, suggestions in social media
- anomaly detection, speech recognition , classification
- Spam Filter (often Bayesian)
Full-Text search
Speech Recognition
Image Recognition
- -) Search engines
-) Chatbots
-) Image classification (for sorting my photo album)
-) Eye-tracking in a cameras autofocus system (this is a hot topic recently, I think)
-) self-driving cars (all sorts of ML involved)
-) Handwritten digits recognition for sorting mail
-) face recognition in CCTV systems (BAD BAD BAD)
- Weather forecast, real estate price forecast, medical exam analysis, image classification, automation of robots (in production environments or even games), ...
- Prediction
Extraction
MEdical diagnosis
- -) converting scanned documents to character strings
-) recognizing faces in CCTV
-) deepfaking faces in video
-) predicting stock market trends
-) writing articles in a natural language
-) establishing diagnoses and planning therapies

#### What do you see as the main difference between _learning_ in humans and machines (if any)?
- machines can process more data, and knowledge can be copied, doesnt need to be learned all over again.
- -) Machines can store and process bigger amounts of tabular data
-) Humans can learn without a beforehand specified goal
- With the current technological status quo, machine learning is rather similar to animal learning than to human learning. The machines memorize, which properties a face should have or which chess turn might be good, but they cannot really tell you why. They just memorize the dependency between action and outcome, without understanding the mechanics inbetween. With enough approaches they might get better at "understanding" the different aspects of their action, but their understanding just relies on statistics, not on intuitive, deep understanding of the connections. However, to the current scientific status, the human mind just consists of a huge network of neurons, which control our whole thinking process. This fact makes me believe, that one day an artificial brain, similar to a human one, might be created. So, in my opinion, the learning difference applies to the current technology, not necessarily for machines in general.
- Humans can adapt their learning themselves while machines need human help.
- we maybe use our logical part of the brain to calculate the loss function while animals purely rely on their emotions to estimate the loss
- If any ...
Machines did not yet reach the level of abstractions & general artificial intelligence of humans. Machine learning is still very much task-oriented, with specific scenarios and a limited set of options, while learning for humans is general and with almost unlimited set of options.
As a human, if I dont want to learn for a lecture I can quit it thats not an option for machines which can only choose from a set of predefined actions.
- Machines have no desire to learn, in fact no desire for anything. On the other hand, they will learn anything you put before them, if you also feed them power. Humans tend to better generalize from learned things (I think) as opposed to machines. The latter usually also have to "general intution" towards stuff they havent learned (or almost learned nothing about), I think humans have more of that.
- I think with good data and a good algorithm, machines can be better than humans in the ability to learn. My idea is: machines can do better than humans, but not more than humans. Because machines depend on the data we provide them.
- accurracy
- Humans always make use of transfer learning: first, because much of what we can learn efficiently is actually wired into our brains in a rudimentary way (essentially, models learned by our distant ancestors for some different problems), second, because we constantly use analogies when facing new situations (or reconsidering old ones). As of today, machines typically only have some pre-set hyperparameters at best.
Another difference (as of today) is of course consciousness, or the pursuit of selfish goals, in humans.

#### Can anything be _learned_ or where do you see limitations?
- Maybe if the system is complex enough.
- Yes (universal approximation theorem)
- If we exclude learning physical moves, which is additionally limited by our body, I would say what can be learned depends on how much memory capacity it needs. The more often a situation occurs, the better the situation (or similar ones) will be handled, this counts for animals/humans as well as machines. Facts (like vocabulary) can also be learned "in advance", but without using them often, the memory will delete those facts, since the capacity is limited. So one cannot learn, how to make the optimal chess move, because one would need to memorize all existing chess positions, which of course exceeds the memory capacity. Another possible limitation (currently) more relevant to humans might be the ability to produce specific art, music for example. Some people are just more musical than others. In contrast to making the best chess move, it might be possible to learn this but I am unsure, if a real unmusically person (or a computer) might ever be able to compose good music.
- The physical body/hardware sets the limit.
- no. One limitation is that we die at some point in our lifes
- I think anything can be learned, provided that the learner has sufficient level of abstraction developed to generalize from the "samples".
- Humans lifespans are limited, so is neural plasticity Id say. A lot can be learned by humans to a certain degree, however I am one of those people that believe that there are certain time-windows within a humans life where it is much easier to learn certain things. At least if one wants to master a certain level. Things like languages and musical instruments come to mind (possibly most things related to fine motor skills?).
It is thus a question to what degree something wants to be learned. It is also a matter of how things are learned / thaught and how the material is "broken down", etc.
Machines can learn most things that there is sufficient data for, and suitable models, and sufficient power and machines (and people to program them / cobble together the models). Again, generalization may be an issue.
- I see limitations in the data that machines need. I would say that they can learn anything, but they only get good results with a large sample of data that takes into account various real situations.
- yes everything can be learned
- Any learning process has a limited class of models at its disposal, which can be more or less powerful (expressed eg. as the Vapnik-Chervonenkis dimension: it can not shatter large sets).
A restriction to a class may be necessary because:
-) one would need more observations to learn a better model (without overfitting) (no learning without input)
-) there are and will always be physical limitations (training time, storage capacity...) (in machines and in humans alike).

#### Where do you see the largest possible benefits of machine learning (if any)?
- Automatic generation of Code, Graphics,..
- automation of manual data processing
- Something which really might change the world to a better place would be a machine, predicting the outcome of certain decisions. A machine, learning all relevant dependencies between different actions and their outcomes for years, might be able to predict future events with high certainty. It could tell humanity, which resources should be used and which should be saved, which areas should be populated, how many children one should get in certain areas (to prevent overpopulation), ... I know this sounds very spooky and is far away from current reality, but I do not doubt that a machine one day could be able to make better decisions than human politicians. The reason I believe this, is that humans are (due to evolution) always driven by ego and have a lack of objectivity, which prevents them from making optimal decisions. A central machine might overcome these weaknesses.
- Identification of a massive amount of objects.
- resource planing, health care, fraud detection , enviromental tasks, ,repetitive tasks like being a amazon employee lifting packages from place to place or other tasks that do not require a big brain. If humans are resources then its a waste to use these resources on tasks like that if they can get done by ml
- Whenever we have no algorithm.
Machine learning allows us to develop a solution for problems which we would not know how to solve in a step-by-step approach.
- As with most machines: simplify repetetive tasks, make it so that humans need not do them.
Make it feasible to grasp huge amounts of data, summarize it, build (hopefully interpretable) models for it.
- I think there are several areas where the machine learning is very important. At first thought, the medical field in which it is possible to analyze medical examinations and machines have capabilities that humans cannot reasonably assess. Conclusions that do not make sense in the logic of the area, but that have an influence on the decision of whether or not to detect a cancer. Other possible areas with benefits: social network control, road safety, evolution of chemistry, ...
- prediction
- In the healthcare field it definitely has the potential of making many of mankinds oldest dreams come true.
As for the planet, it may optimize the recycling process and the use of natural resources.
Many tedious, repetitive activities are about to be eliminated.
It may indirectly contribute to a sense of community among all humans, by presenting us with a non-human counterpart, and by ending capitalistic competition.

#### Where do you see the largest possible risks of machine learning (if any)?
- manipulation,
non transparent algorithms, loss of control
- -) backdoors
-) comprehensiveness
-) market dominance of certain companies
- The scenario I explained before is the best example for possible risks. If a machine is in power of making political decisions, Firstly, it must bee guaranteed, that the machine is secure, that the probability of a human exploiting it is almost zero. Secondly, it must be guaranteed, that the machine works independently, and is not controlled by (or developed in favor of) a specific country/company. It should be developed and maintained by an international group of scientists without any company influencing them. Thirdly, it must be guaranteed, that the machine does not develop an ego (like in Matrix) but in my opinion, there is no reason, why it would develop one it is not driven by evolution why should it want anything?
- The algorithm has to account for every possible situation (self-driving car).
- banks
- -) Job safety: similar to the steam engine, machine learning will cause the destruction or massive reduction of a couple of jobs. Taxi drivers will be replaced by self-driving cars, first-line phone agents by automated systems, first-line insurance claim inspectors by machines. Will we have enough new jobs for the people? Will it end the concept of work-based income?
-) Tricking: Many machine learned systems can be compromised by adversarial attacks. This will be a problem especially for first generations of systems; later on these issues will be more and more fixed, and a similar problem exists for humans (social engineering).
- -) As with most machines: benefits in productivity should benefit humans in general (e.g. by raising salaries by the same amount), howver this doesnt seem to happen.
-) Social credit systems.
-) Bias in data sets that people are not aware of and/or ignore, especially when methods for decision making are based on them. BAD.
-) Wrongfully gloryfying ML in general.
-) ... many more things
- I think that sometimes people tend to expect very well from the field, and perhaps that is an exaggerated expectation. But honestly, with a quick inspection, I can not think of a big risk.
- speech recognition
- Surveillance and control by the state, abuse of personal data by private companies are immediate risks. The more aspects of a persons life can be manipulated by a single entity, the more vulnerable (s)he is.
Robot armies will be at least as much of a threat as A-bombs.
Indirectly, humans could have a sense of idleness and of lack of purpose.

#### What do you expect from this course and what do you hope to learn?
- Mathematical concepts behind machine learning
- Take a deeper dive into the theoretical foundations and current hot topics of ML as e.g.
-) limits of best subset selection methods like LASSO
-) learning and optimization algorithms like Levenberg-Marquardt, Gauss-Newton
-) Hopfield networks
-) Restricted Boltzmann machines
-) GANs
- I would like to get a better understanding, how machine learning works, because I am very interested in machine learning and really impressed, what already is possible (especially since I use DeepDream).
I would also like to find out more about existing machine learning programs.
Since this is my first course about machine learning, I hope it is beginner-friendly.
I was already interested in IT, but the studies also aroused my interest in mathematics, and since I do not need mathematics in many courses in the bachelor, I hope I can apply some of them in this course.
I want to find out if machine learning is a topic I should dive more into, e.g. by writing my bachelor thesis about a related topic.
- A better understanding of machine learning and its current focus.
- to be honest no clue, i need ECTS and i like this topic a lot
- I want to deepen my understanding of machine learning, deep learning, and also learn what the areas of research are.
- Hm, I guess mostly some more theoretical background to several ML topics.
- I am doing my masters dissertation and I want to do good research for a good foundation of practical applications. Finding out more is fascinating and the theoretical basis is the beginning for that. One of the things I expect from this course is to gain the ability to deal with these issues and start a career in which I will always be connected to try to understand more and better why things happen, in this case, in the field of machine learning.
- Enhance my knowledge in Machine learning
- I expect that I will get to know some more advanced, mathematical aspects of machine learning. I hope that this knowledge will in future help me grasp novel techniques more easily, and that it will provide me with insights that go beyond technical skills. I also hope that I will understand what is being presented. :)
